We're on North Central Expressway, testing, testing.
I'm here, and I'm one of the testees, I guess.
This is September 28.
I have the honor of chatting with Mr. H.R.
Bright about his A&M days.
Mr. Bright, to begin this, describe your growing up and family and...
Describe your days before you went to A&M.
All right, sir.
I am one of two children.
My father is born and bred in North Carolina and attended North Carolina University.
Has a very deep southern accent.
My wife's a North Carolinian.
Where was home for him?
Well, he lived in a little town in eastern North Carolina, Chakawinity.
And they apparently had a good deal of land there.
And, but it was, Chakawinity was a town of about 800 people and still is.
And that was...
where he was born and bred and, and he attended the University of North Carolina.
Uh, married my mother, uh, who was born in Joplin, Missouri, and uh, but her family was raised here in Texas and in Oklahoma.
And uh,
Dad, uh, he came to Texas to, uh, because Texas was an expanding community.
Uh, got here at about the time they opened Oklahoma from, uh, they had the land rush in this and he went to Oklahoma.
My mother's
sister lived in Oklahoma.
They lived in Muskogee.
And my father, after he graduated from the University of North Carolina, went to Atlanta, and he was knocked in the head when he was up in the capital and robbed.
and he decided he didn't want to be in Atlanta, and he came to the new country, which was Oklahoma, and started a drug store, and that's where he met my mother, and they were married, and they had two children.
My sister is two years older than I, and she was first born, and then I was born, and then
My father sold his drug store and went to work for H.K.
Mulford, as I stated earlier.
Mulford was sold to Sharpen Dome, and he got a job with Johnson & Johnson.
And we were in Dallas, I guess, at that time.
I'm—I don't really know.
But, uh, then my mother got sick, and
Uh, she went to Oklahoma for Uncle Tom, her sister's uh, husband, to help take care of her.
And uh, this was after she and Dad were married.
And I was actually born in Muskogee, Oklahoma.
And uh, early years.
Well, when Dad got the job with Johnson & Johnson, we opened up the territory west of the Mississippi.
My first recollection is St.
Joseph, Missouri.
Then, uh, we moved from there to Omaha, from Omaha to, uh, some place in
Iowa, and I just had no recollection of it.
We landed in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and that's where my real first memories begin.
And we were in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and I started the school in Sioux Falls.
And then we came back to Dallas.
when I was probably in the second grade.
And by this time, he was working for J&J.
And what, I don't know J&J.
Johnson & Johnson.
Oh, Johnson & Johnson.
So did he travel calling on customers?
Yes.
He was a salesman for them.
How did he go?
By train?
No, he drove.
Oh.
And he...
We lived in an apartment first, and then we moved to a house.
And then my mother had been a school teacher when she was young, and she decided that the Highland Park schools were the best schools.
And so we moved into a little two-bedroom house in Highland Park on Auburndale, the only house on Auburndale.
And also at that time, I was probably in the second grade, and mother decided that I was too old to be sleeping in the same room with my sister, so I had to sleep on the couch every night.
And I'd go to bed in their bed when they had company, and they'd move me to the couch.
Then we got a three bedroom house and I had my own bedroom and we rented that house for a number of years and then the house down the street on Mockingbird Lane became vacant and dad bought that house and that's where I really spent the majority of my young life and went to A&M from that house.
You finished high school in what year?
Uh, in 30, I think 37.
Okay.
Do you have any idea how many were in the senior class at Highland Park?
About how many graduated with you?
No, now we're talking about high school.
Yes, sir.
I was thinking of grade school.
No.
No, I was in high school.
I got out in 39.
Oh, oh.
And, uh, we, then, uh, I worked for two years until I got to go to A&M.
Well, I got, must have gotten out in 37 and I worked for two years and went to, uh, A&M.
Why did you go to A&M instead of some other school?
Because I could go room, board, books, tuition, A&M for $525 two semesters.
Had you been down ever to visit A&M before you went down to... I had never been there.
I had heard of it, and when I was a little kid, and they used to play SMU in football, I'd go up there because they had a fence,
behind Ownby Stadium.
There'd be three or four hundred Aggies lined up there.
And just before the game started, they'd start piling over the fence.
And when I was little, they'd throw me across the fence and some Aggies on the other side would catch me.
Oh, how good.
And you could go in and if you ran real fast, they never caught you.
What impression did you have of A&M before you got there?
That it was an all-male, all-military school.
And that's all I knew about it.
I knew they had the Southwest Conference at that time, and I saw SMU playing them every other year.
But I knew little about it.
You didn't have any real close buddies.
that had gone down there?
No, did not.
When you went down to, for the first time, to register, how did you get there?
By train.
And did you go by yourself?
Yes.
What did you take on that train with you?
I had a footlocker and a grip.
A grip full of clothes and a footlocker full of clothes.
And no uniforms.
When I got out of the train, I took the footlocker and I'd carry it about 200 feet and I'd come back and get the grip and carry it up.
And I had received my entry level or whatever you have, whatever you receive to get to go to school.
I knew I was, had been assigned a room in A-10 Hart Hall.
In Hart, okay.
And I got closer to, I got off the train station, I got closer to the campus and I asked somebody where Hart Hall was and they told me and I,
asked what A-10 meant and they told me and I got my stuff up there and put it in my room.
And what did the campus look like to you when you first looked at it?
What impression did it make?
It was big and it was big but I had lived right by SMU and it looked about like SMU did
in that day and time.
And did any Aggies say anything to you as you're toting that footlocker?
Yes.
There was a fellow who was a sophomore or junior, I don't recall which, and he helped me carry the footlocker.
He carried one end and I had hold of the other end and he helped me in that.
showed me where Hart Hall was and how to get to A-Ramp and how to get up there.
And I never, I probably saw him again, but I don't remember his name, but he was just an Aggie.
He was an upperclassman.
When you left home, do you remember anything your parents said to you as you went away that first trip?
My dad told me that he was spending a lot of money sending me to college and he wanted me to apply myself and do good.
And my mother said, you write every day.
They took me down and put me on the train and sent me off.
And did you take the money with you to pay that tuition and fees?
No.
How much money did you take with you?
I probably had $8 to $10, and that was a lot of money at that time to me.
All right.
Describe getting settled into that room.
Went up to the room, and a friend that I had known in high school.
Now, I got out of high school, and I'd worked two years, and he really had been a year behind me.
He was my age, but I had been double-promoted several times, three times in grade school.
And he and I happened to be assigned as roommates.
What was his name?
His name was Herbert Schiff, C-H-I-F-F.
And what had happened, Herbert had went to high school with me, but was a year behind me, and he got out.
And he went to SMU for a year and Herbert was half Jewish and he was not in the fraternity and he didn't like SMU for that reason and so he transferred to A&M.
where you had no fraternities, but he was a classified sophomore and I was a classified freshman, but Herbert wasn't a very good student and he wound up, we graduated in the same group.
And how soon was it before some sophomore or junior came in to give you all a little, an introduction to A&M?
I really have no recollection of that.
I do remember that our battery commander was a guy named Bill Slayton, who had known and dated my sister, and I knew who he was, and he came and was very nice to us and very nice to me, and I had known him previously.
And so how long did it take to get your uniforms?
Do you remember?
Well, now we used government-issued uniforms.
They furnished the uniforms.
And I think it was in the first two or three days.
I probably went down there a week ahead of school starting and we had our uniforms and I had my slide room bought.
everything by the time school started.
And you were sure you wanted to be a petroleum engineer?
Yes, I was pretty sure I wanted to be a petroleum engineer.
And a lot of that came from my parents and my sister who was older than I and her boyfriend's advice when they'd come
I was always Betty's little brother.
Betty was a real popular girl and was always the class beauty, you know, and that stuff.
And the older boys, two years older than I, during the high school days, they always knew who I was because I was Betty's little brother.
Alright, y'all then, you began to fall out and y'all went to Chow in Duncan or in Cebesa?
Cebesa.
Describe the routine that begins.
Well, when the outfit filled up and we were in A, B, and C in Hart Hall and
The, you met the fellows and you learned that if you didn't know their name, you introduced yourself and you learned that in about the first twelve to fifteen hours you were on campus.
And uh, we, I was down there probably two or three days ahead of school actually starting or even registration starting.
They fed you in the mess hall, and I had little to do with getting me into school and getting me admitted.
My parents had done that for me, but they had apparently done that ahead of time, because when I went down there, they knew who I was.
in the registrar's office, and I guess the family had done that.
And as you go into the dining hall, how did they introduce you to the nicknames of all the food and all the other traditions of the dining hall?
They, I guess the sophomores did that pretty quick.
And I learned that there was a difference between being a freshman and an upperclassman.
Did you, did you get to sit at the hot corner sometimes?
What's the hot corner?
Oh, well that's, that wasn't in your day?
No.
And other, the freshmen, there were two freshmen had to sit at the corner and they passed everything to everybody else.
They served the table.
Well, we didn't have that.
We did, uh, freshmen sat, uh,
I don't recall that we had a—we had a seat that was ours, but I don't recall that there was anything other than you—this freshman couldn't eat until all the upperclassmen had their plate full.
Did you eat square meals?
No, we never did have that.
Did you all have nicknames for the food?
Yeah.
What are some that you remember?
Oh, I don't really remember them.
Meat was bull neck?
Bull neck, and milk was cow, and butter, I don't recall what they called it, and
Mustard was baby.
Yeah.
When you got accustomed to those nicknames, did you ever come home and slip and forget and use some of those same words at the table at home?
I don't recall that.
I may have, but I don't recall it.
A few of the people have said they got in trouble using some words at home.
Yeah, that you used down there at school.
Your outfits, did it have a nickname?
No, we were D Battery Coast Artillery.
But it didn't have a nickname?
No.
How long before you freshmen acquired a nickname, an individual nickname?
Well, let me say this.
There were some juniors and seniors there that had been in my sister's class and knew me as Betty's little brother.
And they knew who I was and the CO of our outfit.
had gone to the same high school as I and he was a senior and his name was Bill Slayton and uh he had had dates with my sister and he was uh he knew who I was and there were several people in the Coast Artillery who uh were from Highland Park and knew who I was not because of knowing me but because Betty was
and they were upperclassmen and Betty was a very popular girl and they knew I was Betty's little brother.
Did the nickname, did you, when did you acquire a nickname?
When I must have been two weeks, three weeks old.
Oh, so you grew up?
Did that, and so that went to A&M with you?
Yes.
Did they, did those acquaintances call you?
Oh yeah, everybody called me Brahman.
They, the, my father,
I was born in October, October 6th.
Mother put me on the back porch, fixed breakfast.
And the time Dad was up and shaved and dressed, he'd come out and look.
And he had that deep southern accent.
And my cheeks and nose would be red from the cold.
Sugar, he looks like a little railroad bum.
So that's...
I was the little railroad bum and then I was bum.
Do you remember some other interesting individual nicknames among your friends at A&M?
Oh yes, we had some nicknames, but they were not mixed company.
Your roommate, you and your roommate, describe the room when you all got it furnished, when you unpacked, what was in that room?
Well, we had a double deck bed at a desk.
He at one end, me at the other end.
Bookcases that went across it.
We had a small rug.
that we put by the bed because when we were barefooted, you liked to get up on that rug instead of that concrete floor.
And no curtains?
No, I don't recall us having curtains.
No fan and no radio.
We had a radio.
Oh, you had a radio?
Yeah.
Herbert had a radio.
What stations did you all listen to?
Uh, whatever the Bryan College Station stations were, that was about all we could get.
WTAW.
Yeah.
Watch the Aggies win.
My family and I, our number four son and his wife, live not very far north here, and we're going down to Waxahachie tomorrow to hear the Light Crust Doughboys.
From Burris Mills.
Yes, sir.
I've been telling them.
I grew up hearing those.
We're the Light Quest Door Boys from Burris Mills.
With W. Leo Daniel as their emcee when he owned the Burris Mills.
Right.
You see, you didn't have a fan, though.
Did you have a lamp, or did you just have one big light in the room?
We did not have a lamp.
We had light in the room.
And I believe we had a, each of us had a lamp like that on our side of the desk.
Okay.
We had our books, bookshelf in the middle, and it divided the desk.
I sat on this end, he sat on that end, and the two bookshelves were in the middle.
Once classes start, describe the typical class day routine.
What time did y'all get up?
What did you do?
until about 10 o'clock at night.
All right.
We got up about 5.
We showered, shaved, got dressed, polished our shoes, organized our books when we had to go to class,
and really put those on the corner of the desk because Hart Hall was kind of in the middle.
We'd come back, try to get back at least between two classes, leave our books, pick up our new things and take off to get to class.
Did you have to police an upperclassman's room when you were freshman?
What do I mean, police?
Did you have to go clean up an upperclassman?
Oh yes, we had to do that.
You had to clean up your upperclassman's room and you had the same upperclassman's room to clean up.
But I had worked in the oil fields for two years before I went to, got to go to A&M.
And I was not big, but I was hard.
And they, I quickly learned what they, they'd have baseball bats and you know they'd shave them about that thick and I learned what the boards were.
And I very early acquired the reputation.
He said, D. Barry's got an iron ass freshman.
And because I was, I had worked in the oil fields hard and I was hard and when I pulled a pooch
It just really didn't bother me too much.
And, you know, at this time they'd do warm up licks in one, two, three, and I'd turn around and say, is that all?
And what was the kind of reason they would use to apply the board?
What did you all do?
Oh gosh.
uh walking on the sidewalk instead of walking in the street or uh and I was always doing something to the upperclassmen's room and some examples of what would y'all do uh put a bucket of water on the door and uh and uh oh
uh jump all his bed clothes on the floor and uh guys did y'all uh do any stunts in the middle of the night no generally we didn't we cq freshmen and sophomores required to be in their room and a senior or junior or senior would come in and inspect but would also be available
to answer any questions you might have about your studies.
And I was taking petroleum engineering and I knew the upperclassmen that were taking petroleum engineering and sometimes you'd request permission during CQ to go ask him something that he could tell you very quickly and was happy to do it.
Now, you were in class almost all morning.
Did you all come back and fall in and march to noon, child?
Yes, we marched breakfast, noon, and dinner.
And then in the afternoon, intramurals, was your outfit strong in intramurals?
Yes, we were, we had an intramural operation.
I was seldom in it because I was taking, I was originally going to get a combined ME petroleum degree.
And I was, we had a full class and I was taking 18 hours of engineering and we generally had labs till five o'clock, at least three days out of the week.
And you didn't, I didn't have a whole lot of free time.
All right, so then you'd come back, fall out for night inspection, go to night chow, then go, then would you come back to your room and study?
Yes, but what we'd do, we'd come back and have a drill from five to, we'd drill because we were going to be in competition drill.
And the whole outfit would drill, the freshmen up to seniors.
Where did y'all drill?
In the street in front of Hart Hall.
Okay.
and you said that you were acquainted with your outfit commander.
Did you make some other important friendships that first year at A&M?
Oh, yes.
Yeah, your buddy across the shower and the toilet were between the rooms, and those were all your close friends that you could see them.
My sister had been very popular, and all the Highland Park guys knew I was Betty's little brother.
And not only in my outfit, but in other outfits, they knew I was there, and it was very helpful to me to get to know other people other than D Battery Coast.
What were some of the courses that you remember that first year, that first semester?
Oh, I don't really remember many of my first semester.
I do remember my junior and senior years, the courses and the particular professors you had.